---
  title: " SRDR Tabs explained "
---


##  SRDR Tabs explained

You’ll notice that the predetermined tabs don’t exactly line up with PICO (D).  Here’s a quick explanation of where everything goes:
<br><br>

- **Population**: Include data about your population in the “baseline details” tab.<br><br>
- **Intervention and Comparator**: The “arms” tab and “arms details” tab cover data about your intervention (one arm) and your comparator (another arm). If a study compares more than two treatment approaches, you’ll include a new arm for each additional intervention. <br><br>
- **Outcomes**: You define your outcomes in the “outcomes” tab and enter data about your outcomes into the “outcomes details” tab.
- **(D)esign**: The “design” tab is near the front of the extraction form, because researchers often write about the design of their research in the first few portions of a study.<br><br>
Here’s an explanation of the other tabs:<br><br>

- **Publication**: Is for bibliographic information about the study.<br><br>
- **Adverse events**: Catalogs any harms caused by the interventions or the research itself.<br><br>
- **Quality**: Collects data related to the quality of the research and any risks of bias. Potential fields include details on randomization, blinding of participants and selective reporting. <br><br>
- **Finalize**: This is where you signal that you’re done creating your data extraction form and you’re ready to share it with your team. 
<br><br>
Want to know more about how to use SRDR? Start with these video tutorials:
<br><br>
[SRDR Overview: Viewing and Initiating a Project](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eyb82jDq4Lo#t=22)
Want to know more about how to use SRDR? Start with these video tutorials:
<br><br>
[SRDR: Creating an Extraction Form](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mjHzca5kDXg)
Want to know more about how to use SRDR? Start with these video tutorials:
<br><br>
A word of advice: spend some time writing out the elements of your extraction form BEFORE you log on to SRDR. This technology offers a great way to organize your form, but it’s more useful if you already have a good sense of the data you plan to collect. 
