---
  title: "Outcomes"
---


## Outcomes

If you remember from our earlier course, outcomes are the yardsticks we use to measure the differences between an intervention and its comparator. That’s why it’s so important to establish a clear and consistent approach to extracting outcome data. <br><br>

Every study will have a slightly different set of outcomes or a different approach to measuring those outcomes. <br><br>

To avoid too much confusion, start with a list of key outcomes before you even look at your studies. Be clear about what pieces of information are most important for your specific research question. <br><br>

You can always revise your list of outcomes as you extract from your studies, but try to do this early on in the process.  Any adjustments to your list will force you to revisit the studies you already extracted to look for new outcomes.<br><br>

Here are some of the details you’ll need to gather for how each paper reports the outcome:<br><br>

- How do the study authors define the outcome? <br>
For example, what counts as “severe bleeding?”<br><br>
- How is the outcome measured?<br>
For example is it a count, a category, or a continuous measure?<br><br>
- What units were used to measure the outcome?<br>
	For example, pounds or kilograms? Inches or centimeters?<br><br>
- What scales were used to measure the outcome?<br>
For example, depression, quality of life and other patient reported outcomes are often measured using some type of scale. Be sure to check to see if the scale used has been validated, in other words, is there scientific proof that the scale measures what it’s supposed to measure?<br><br>
- Who determined that this outcome happened? <br>
For example, a nurse? A doctor? The patient?<br><br>
- How was the information about this outcome collected? <br>
For example, through blood tests? Observation? A survey?<br><br>
- When was the information about the outcome collected?<br>
 For example, at the time of care? Six months later? Years later?<br><br>
 
Also, consider how you plan to synthesize the outcome data you’re extracting. If you’re clear about the data you’ll need for your final analysis, you can avoid collecting information you won’t use. For instance, if you know you aren’t interested in outcomes related to high blood pressure, don’t bother extracting data on that outcome. <br><br>

The reverse is also true. If you don’t think about the specific types of calculations you plan to make, you might fail to collect the raw numbers you need to standardize your results. <br><br>

For example, If you only collect odds ratios and don’t extract the raw data that could be used to make this calculation, you won’t be able to reconstruct that data for any studies that didn’t report odds ratios. <br><br>

Every study will have a slightly different approach to reporting data, so your data extraction form will need to include a place for both raw numbers and calculated results to capture the range of reporting methods.<br><br>

In general, try to capture data in as raw a form as possible so that you can reconstruct anything you need.
